Homework (Simulation)
This simulation homework focuses on fork.py, a simple process creation simulator 
that shows how processes are related in a single “familial” tree. 
Read the relevant README for details about how to run the
simulator.

Questions
1. Run ./fork.py -s 10 and see which actions are taken. Can you
predict what the process tree looks like at each step? Use the -c
flag to check your answers. Try some different random seeds (-s)
or add more actions (-a) to get the hang of it.

./fork.py -s 10
a->b
a->b,c
a->b
a->b,d
a->b,d,e

./fork.py -s 9
a->b
a->b->c
a->b->c,d
a->b->d,c->e
a->b->f,d,c->e

./fork.py -s 9 -a 6
a->b
a->b->c
a->b->c,d
a->b->d,c->e
a->b->f,d,c->e
a->e,b->f,d When its parent exits (c), e becomes child of initial process   

2. One control the simulator gives you is the fork_percentage, 
controlled by the -f flag. The higher it is, the more likely 
the next action is a fork; the lower it is, the more likely 
the action is an exit.
Run the simulator with a large number of actions (e.g., -a 100)
and vary the fork_percentage from 0.1 to 0.9. What do you
think the resulting final process trees will look like 
as the percentage changes? Check your answer with -c.

When the fork percentage is low, the number of exit actions is a little bit 
lower than fork (cannot be higher since you can not have an exit 
without a fork before for child process to be created) so almost all forks 
are cancelled, there are few siblings and low depth of the tree.
When fork percentage increase, there are more forks in detriment of exits
so more siblings and increased depth (e.g. for 90% 16 siblings and depth 7)

3. Now, switch the output by using the -t flag (e.g., run ./fork.py
-t). Given a set of process trees, can you tell which actions were
taken?

a forks b
b exits
a forks c
c forks d
d forks e

4. One interesting thing to note is what happens when a child exits;
what happens to its children in the process tree? To study this, let’s
create a specific example: ./fork.py -A a+b,b+c,c+d,c+e,c-.
This example has process ’a’ create ’b’, which in turn creates ’c’,
which then creates ’d’ and ’e’. However, then, ’c’ exits. What do
you think the process tree should like after the exit? What if you
use the -R flag? Learn more about what happens to orphaned processes
on your own to add more context.

When d and e are orphaned (their parent exits) by default they become children
of initial process (root) a, not their grand-parent b (local reparent)
With -R flag, the new parent for orphaned processes becones their local reparent
i.d closest ascendant (grand parent).
Orphan process are reassign to a special system process (like init in Linux) 
that becomes its new parent to handle cleanup

5. One last flag to explore is the -F flag, which skips intermediate
steps and only asks to fill in the final process tree. Run ./fork.py
-F and see if you can write down the final tree by looking at the
series of actions generated. Use different random seeds to try this a
few times.

./fork.py -F -s7 
a->(b->d),(c->e,f)

./fork.py -F -s8 
a->d,b->e,c->f

6. Finally, use both -t and -F together. This shows the final process
tree, but then asks you to fill in the actions that took place. 
By looking at the tree, can you determine the exact actions that took place?
In which cases can you tell? In which can’t you tell? 
Try some different random seeds to delve into this question.

./fork.py -t -F -s 5
We know that by default we have 5 actions
The final process tree is a->d. Since we reached d, we must have forked
b and c and also both exited. It is not clear the order fork exit fork exit
or fork fork exit exit. Also not clear the max depth we reached (2 or 3) or 
if we have 1 fork a->d and the remaining 2 forks cancelled by 2 exits 
(e.g. a->b, a->c, then b exits and c exits or a->b, b->c, c exits, b exits)
or d was orphaned: a->b, b->c, c->d, c exits, b exits

./fork.py -t -F -s 6  
The final process tree is a->b->c->d->e->f
Since no exit action the actions are clear: a->b, b->c, c->d, d->e,e->f

Homework (Code)
In this homework, you are to gain some familiarity with the process
management APIs about which you just read. Don’t worry – it’s even
more fun than it sounds! You’ll in general be much better off if you find
as much time as you can to write some code, so why not start now?

Questions
1. Write a program that calls fork(). Before calling fork(), have the
main process access a variable (e.g., x) and set its value to something 
(e.g., 100). What value is the variable in the child process?
What happens to the variable when both the child and parent change
the value of x?
Value remains 100 in child and parent if no one changes it.
When child changes it to 50 from that moment on is remains 50, 
but after wait returns in parent value is still 100
When parent changes it to 70 after wait, value remains 100 in child, 
becomes 70 only in parent after change
When both change value: child to 50, parent to 70 after wait, child and
parent have different values.
Child gets its private address space with same values initially (x=100),
but it can change it in its space which doesn't affect parent space.
It doesn'yt matter if parent waits or not for child.


2. Write a program that opens a file (with the open() system call)
and then calls fork() to create a new process. Can both the child
and parent access the file descriptor returned by open()? 
What happens when they are writing to the file concurrently, i.e., at the
same time?
Both child and parent access the file descriptor since it was created
before fork so they have access to that variable. 
When they write to it concurently both their contributions appear 
in the file : first child, then parent if parents waits, 
or first parent then child

3. Write another program using fork(). The child process should
print “hello”; the parent process should print “goodbye”. You should
try to ensure that the child process always prints first; can you do
this without calling wait() in the parent?
If we call sleep in parent before printing, 
the child has time to print hello before.
The issue is that if a wait is not performed, then the terminated child 
(after printing hello) remains in a "zombie" state.
As long as a zombie is not removed from the system via a wait, 
it will consume a slot in the kernel process table, and if this table fills, 
it will not be possible to create further processes.

4. Write a program that calls fork() and then calls some form of
exec() to run the program /bin/ls. See if you can try all of the
variants of exec(), including (on Linux) execl(), execle(),
execlp(), execv(), execvp(), and execvpe(). Why do
you think there are so many variants of the same basic call?

The differences are in how the program is found (p suffix), 
how the arguments are specified (v vs l suffix), 
and where the environment comes from (e suffix)


5. Now write a program that uses wait() to wait for the child process
to finish in the parent. What does wait() return? What happens if
you use wait() in the child?

wait(): on success, returns the process ID of the terminated child; 
on failure, -1 is returned.
When we call wait from child, since it doesn't have any child,
the return code is -1.

6. Write a slight modification of the previous program, 
this time using waitpid() instead of wait(). When would waitpid() be
useful?

wait(&wstatus) is equivalent to: waitpid(-1, &wstatus, 0)
pid -1 meaning wait for any child process.
waitpid allows more freedom for selecting child process (pid) and
when to return (options)

7. Write a program that creates a child process, and then in the child
closes standard output (STDOUT_FILENO). What happens if the child
calls printf() to print some output after closing the descriptor?

After we close descriptor for stdout the printf in child doesn't print
anything to terminal because stdout is not attached to terminal. 
printf returns -1 since this function returns the number of characters printed.

8. Write a program that creates two children, and connects the standard output 
of one to the standard input of the other, using the
pipe() system call.