Homework (Simulation)
This program, process-run.py, allows you to see how process states
change as programs run and either use the CPU (e.g., perform an add
instruction) or do I/O (e.g., send a request to a disk and wait for it to
complete). See the README for details.

Questions
1. Run process-run.py with the following flags: -l 5:100,5:100.
What should the CPU utilization be (e.g., the percent of time the
CPU is in use?) Why do you know this? Use the -c and -p flags to
see if you were right.

For both processes in the list there 100% chance 
that an instruction will use CPU so 
CPU busy all 10 clock ticks: 100%

2. Now run with these flags: ./process-run.py -l 4:100,1:0.
These flags specify one process with 4 instructions (all to use the
CPU), and one that simply issues an I/O and waits for it to be done.
How long does it take to complete both processes? Use -c and -p
to find out if you were right.

Process 0 has 4 instructions all using the CPU so during first 4 clock ticks
process 0 is in RUN state and using CPU, while process 1 is READY. 
From time 5 process 0 is DONE and process 1 in RUN uses CPU to issue IO request
During 5 clocks ticks, process 1 is BLOCKED waiting for IO completion so 
CPU is idle and IO devices busy, then process 1 in RUN again uses CPU for IO completion.
So total clock ticks: 4 (for 0 to complete) + 7 (for 1 to issue IO, wait 
and complete) = 11

3. Switch the order of the processes: -l 1:0,4:100. What happens
now? Does switching the order matter? Why? (As always, use -c
and -p to see if you were right)

Process 0 has 1 IO instruction so in time 1 process 0 is RUN on CPU to
issue IO request, while process 1 is READY. 
As per default policy system switches when process 0 issues IO so 
in times 2,3,4,5 process 0 is BLOCKED and process 1 in RUN uses CPU, 
while process 0 keeps IO busy
In time 6 process 1 is DONE, so as per policy system switches to process 0,
but process 0 still has to wait 1 time unit so remains BLOCKED, CPU idle and IO busy.
Time 7 process 0 is RUN uses CPU to complete IO.

4. We’ll now explore some of the other flags. One important flag is
-S, which determines how the system reacts when a process issues an I/O. 
With the flag set to SWITCH ON END, the system
will NOT switch to another process while one is doing I/O, 
instead waiting until the process is completely finished. 
What happens when you run the following two processes (-l 1:0,4:100
-c -S SWITCH ON END), one doing I/O and the other doing CPU
work?

Since switch policy is to wait until process finished, in time 1 like before,
then times 2-6 process 0 BLOCKED, proces 1 still READY, 
so CPU idle and IO busy. Time 7 process 0 RUN uses CPU to complete IO, 
process 1 still READY and waiting. Finally from 8-11, when process 0 DONE, 
process 1 in RUN uses CPU. So it tooks 11 clock ticks instead of 7, 
CPU was idle more time and process 0 still completed after 7 clock ticks

5. Now, run the same processes, but with the switching behavior set
to switch to another process whenever one is WAITING for I/O (-l
1:0,4:100 -c -S SWITCH ON IO). What happens now? Use -c
and -p to confirm that you are right.

Default behaviour: answer 3

6. One other important behavior is what to do when an I/O completes. 
With -I IO RUN LATER, when an I/O completes, the process that issued 
it is not necessarily run right away; 
rather, whatever was running at the time keeps running. 
What happens when
you run this combination of processes? (./process-run.py -l
3:0,5:100,5:100,5:100 -S SWITCH ON IO -c -p -I
IO RUN LATER) Are system resources being effectively utilized?
In the beginning it seems like system resources are used effectively
since while process 0 is BLOCKED, for 5 clock ticks, process 1 uses CPU 
for its 5 instructions, but in time 7 when process 1 is DONE, process 0
becomes READY and process 2 starts running, then when 2 completes 3 starts running
and only when 3 is DONE, process 0 runs again to complete IO. 
But process has 2 more IO instructions so while it waits for IO, 
CPU remains idle since the other processes aer DONE.

7. Now run the same processes, but with -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE set,
which immediately runs the process that issued the I/O. How does
this behavior differ? 
Why might running a process that just completed an I/O again be a good idea?

Since we have 1 process with 3 IO instructions followed by 3 processes each with
5 CPU instructions, while process 0 waits for IO completion process 1 keeps CPU busy
and finishes, then process 0 runs again because IO completed, 
then while it waits, process 1 uses CPU and finishes, then back to process 0
to complete IO and issue a new one, then, while it waits we finish process 3.
So when we have a process that has IO instructions it's better to return running it 
immediately when IO completes, since it might have other IO instructions and, 
during their waiting time, use CPU for other processes. 

8. Now run with some randomly generated processes using flags -s
1 -l 3:50,3:50 or -s 2 -l 3:50,3:50 or -s 3 -l 3:50,
3:50. See if you can predict how the trace will turn out. 
What happens when you use the flag -I IO RUN IMMEDIATE versus that
flag -I IO RUN LATER? What happens when you use the flag -S
SWITCH ON IO versus -S SWITCH ON END?

Using the seed we get different orders of types of instructions for the 3 
that compose each process(e.g CPU CPU CPU or IO IO CPU or CPU IO CPU etc.)
When the policy is to run immediately after IO completion, 
the process for which IO completed is again in RUN state and 
can use the CPU to complete IO and continue executing its instructions. 
It's good policy if the 1st process has also other IO instructions 
so we can take care of the other processes instructions while 
waiting for completion of 1st process's IO instructions. 
It's neutral if first processes following instructions are CPU since
these can be executed later.
When the policy is to run later after IO completion, the other processes keep
executing before we get back to the 1st process. If the other processes have
CPU instructions it's ok since they will keep CPU busy, 
and if they have also IO instructions it's also OK since they will be blocked
and execution will come back to 1st processor.
When the policy is switch on end of the process it's ok only if 
the 1st process has only CPU instructions, but if it has IO instructions, it's
bad policy since CPU will remain idle a lot while waiting for IO completion
without it being used by other processes.
When the policy is switch on IO issue it's good since we use CPU during waiting
time for other processes, but if the 1st process is more important than the others
it can wait for some time before it can continue execution.

So except for the case when a process if very important so we can switch on end, 
most of the times to use ressources efficiently it's better to switch on IO issue.
As for the choice between run immediately after IO completion or later, 
if the process has many other IO instructions (probably the case for a progran to
make multiple reads/writes) it's better to run immediately. If the later processes
have many IO instructions, these might remain to be exceuted in the end 
while we keep going back to finish first processes with run immediately,
so these instructions will keep the CPU idle in the end since firts processes
are DONE. In most cases run immediately and run later are similar.
Best combination is probably the default one: switch on IO and run later.